# MyBB Quarterly Review - Q2 2019

Hello, and welcome to the first MyBB Quarterly Review blog post.

You may be wondering what this means? We have realised that we've been pretty poor at keeping the community informed of what's going on in the project recently, which is something we want to improve. Our plan from now is to publish a blog post every quarter of the year that cover current events in the MyBB project. However, these posts won't only be focused upon the MyBB core product, since the community is at the heart of the MyBB project, we will also highlight notable plugins, themes and user contributions.

As this is new to all of us, I'm sure it'll take some time to get used to and to settle into a consistent format. We'd welcome any feedback on the kind of content you'd like to see in these posts and ways we can improve the way we present the project and what's going on!

## 1.8 Development Update

MyBB 1.8 is still being actively maintained with MyBB 1.8.21 on track to be released soon. Did you know we have recently started publishing pre-release builds for public testing ahead of the main release? Get early access to 1.8.21 [here](https://community.mybb.com/thread-223241.html) and watch the [1.8 Development](https://community.mybb.com/forum-165.html) forum for the latest pre-release builds.

MyBB 1.8.21 is quite a big release, with a total of 37 closed issues — not all of which are simple bug fixes. For example, support for the [JSON Feed](https://jsonfeed.org) format for syndication has been [added](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/issues/3681), SCEditor has been [updated](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/issues/2542) to the latest version (2.1.3) and jQuery has also been [updated](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/issues/3640) to 3.3.1! Thanks to [effone](https://community.mybb.com/user-61867.html) for these changes!

As a team, we're also considering our approach to when we release updates to MyBB. Currently we release new versions when we reach a decent number of closed issues. This can sometimes mean there is a long gap between releases. For example, there were 5 months between releasing MyBB 1.8.19 and 1.8.20. So we are proposing that we move to a more strict release schedule, with a new release being made available every 2 months regardless of the number of closed issues. Milestones on GitHub would be assigned due dates and if we are about to reach the due date with issues left open then these would be moved to the next milestone instead of blocking a release (except in the case of serious bugs). We will continue with our recent trend of releasing pre-release packages to the community on the [Community Forums](https://community.mybb.com/forum-165.html). We intend that having a regular release schedule will help the team maintain a consistent level of development activity rather than coming and going in waves as it currently does.

## 1.9 Development Update

Work on MyBB 1.9 continues to move more slowly than we would like. Development is currently being blocked by the need to synchronise changes made to MyBB 1.8 into MyBB 1.9. Due to the nature of the [version control system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Version_control) we use, MyBB 1.9 is maintained separately to MyBB 1.8. As the MyBB 1.8 codebase moves forward, the MyBB 1.9 branch slowly goes out of sync because it is missing the recent changes made to MyBB 1.8.

Currently, the MyBB 1.9 contains all the changes up to MyBB 1.8.16. As we mentioned in the previous section, we're currently preparing to release 1.8.21. This leaves the changes from 5 releases of MyBB 1.8 which need to merge into MyBB 1.9. Unfortunately, this is not an easy process due to changes being made to the same pieces of code in both MyBB 1.8 and 1.9, such as the overhaul to the template system mean small changes relating to templates in 1.8 need manual intervention to apply them to 1.9. There are many similar cases where this conflicts need to be resolved manually and to ease this process we have decided to perform this process (called rebasing) one minor release of 1.8 at a time. So far, we've already applied the changes between 1.8.15 and 1.8.16 and plan to [jump to 1.8.17](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/issues/3683) then 1.8.18 within the next week.

Once the rebase is complete, there are still a couple of other tasks for 1.9 before we can release our first Alpha and Beta releases, including:

- [Implement a new email system](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/issues/2909): The current MyBB email system causes issues for forum administrators due to its limited support for slight variations in the way email servers communicate using the SMTP protocol. We're proposing that we adopt an existing well-tested and supported library to handle sending emails. Once adopted, it should be relatively simple to change the existing code since almost every email sent uses a single standard function (`my_mail()`). We're proposing that we adopt the new [`symfony/mailer`](https://github.com/symfony/mailer) library which satisfiers our requirements for SMTP as well as providing various APIs for sending email such as Postmark.
- [Review any missed templates from the Twig conversion](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/issues/3684): During the rebase effort, we have noticed some code using the old template system that has been missed. We need to identify all cases like this and ensure that we are only using the new template system.
- [Update the Admin CP to allow Twig template files to be edited](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/issues/3686): So far during development the only option has been to edit Twig templates directly via the filesystem. While this is a great way to develop (who doesn't want to use their own editor of choice?), being able to edit templates easily within the Admin CP is a useful feature that should be continued for the new template system. Currently there is a discussion about changing the JavaScript code editor that is used in MyBB 1.8 for editing templates to see if there are any better alternatives for MyBB 1.9. It has also been suggested before to support editing multiple templates within tabs at the same time, an enhancement which would be very handy when working with new templates.

In addition to developing MyBB 1.9, we will also be starting to update and introduce new documentation. If there are any documentation pages that you would like to see updated or improved, now would be a great time to bring them to our attention! The MyBB documentation is maintained in the [`mybb/docs.mybb.com`](https://github.com/mybb/docs.mybb.com) repository on GitHub and any contributions are welcome.

## Community Update

*... TODO ...*
