# MyBB 1.9 Development Update #2

Development work on MyBB 1.9 is progressing nicely, and in this post I want to give a rundown of what has been achieved so far and what we have left to do.

## Twig Conversion

When we set out to work on MyBB 1.9, we knew that one of the biggest tasks would be [converting the existing templates into Twig templates](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/issues/2972). This process required both creating new Twig template files, and modifying the backend code to load and render these templates rather than loading templates from the database.

This was a long process that began around the start of January and slowly built up momentum until reaching where it stands today with almost every template converted.

During this conversion process, we started picking out a list of useful Twig functions that should be added by way of new custom twig extensions. For example, the `my_date()` and `my_number_format()` functions are often used throughout the core and moving them into templates should offer template designers much more control over how data is formatted and displayed. The work on this effort is being tracked in [an issue over here](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/issues/2976) and there is currently [an open Pull Request](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/pull/3274) to add some of the functions we've discovered so far.

## New Responsive Theme

Whilst we worked on converting templates to the Twig language, Justin has been hard at work on designing the new responsive theme. Rather than waiting for the rest of the team to convert all templates, Justin has been designing against a stock install of MyBB 1.8.15 and his current design [can currently be found on his live website](https://web.archive.org/web/20180627194402/http://mybb.jsoltesz.com/mybb-theme/).

With the template conversion now having been all but completed, Justin has began the process of integrating the required template changes for the new theme [into the main 1.9 branch](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/commit/f2910425b6dfbb16c42a819a6863f658363571c9).

## JavaScript changes and improvements

As we're overhauling templates, we've decided that we should take a look at improving the JavaScript situation in MyBB. We want to reach a point where there is no JS code embedded within any core templates or core PHP code. [Eric made a start](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/commit/be8b1e68ad92316527150f88692e05258ebfe091) to this process by rethinking how the code for collapsing forums and other elements works, and we're currently [tracking the issue here](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/issues/3282).

## Integrating SwiftMailer in place of the old mail handler code

There have been no shortage of support threads over the years related to the mail system within MyBB. Most cases have been related to the SMTP mail handler which is quite complex and has some odd edge cases causing it to simply not work with some SMTP hosts out there.

Rather than spending effort trying to rework the SMTP mail handler, it was decided that we should instead look to third parties to take that effort off our hands. We ended up choosing to use [the SwiftMailer library](https://swiftmailer.symfony.com) to handle the sending of emails due to how well supported it is.

Moving to SwiftMailer also opens up future opportunities for improvements to the emails that MyBB sends, such as:

- Adding attachments to emails
- Embedding attachments such as images within emails
- Using `CC` and `BCC` with emails
- Signing and encrypting emails with `S/MIME`
- The ability to easily add new mail transports such as transports that use HTTP based APIs such as those provided by MailGun

There's currently [an open Pull Request](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/pull/3265) to integrate this library that is extremely near completion (though it currently lacks error handling for when the sending of an email fails).

Originally we planned a more major overhaul of the mail system in order to add the ability to retry sending failed emails and improve the way that the mail queue works, but that work is being postponed for a future feature release such as MyBB 1.10. Most plugins and places in the core interact with the mail system using the `my_mail()` function as it stands, so making under the hood changes shouldn't cause too many issues.

## Theme system changes

Though the hard work of converting templates to Twig and crafting a brand new theme has been all but completed, there are a few necessary backend changes required to the theme system to support these new features. These include:

- Updating the ACP template editor to edit Twig files rather than the old templates in the database. As part of this update, we will evaluate the current syntax highlighting editor that we use to ensure it's the most recent version and that it supports syntax highlighting for Twig files.
- Updating theme and template related functions such as `find_replace_templatesets()` (commonly used by plugin authors to add and modify code inside templates) to work on the new Twig templates rather than the old templates in the database.
- Store CSS as files rather than in the database, to make editing CSS through a standard editor of your choice easier, and allow editing of CSS via SSH sessions and over FTP.

We have some more changes we'd like to make to the theme system, and we're currently working on drafting another blog post with these changes. Some of the bigger changes might end up getting postponed to later feature releases such as MyBB 1.10, depending upon time and demand. In an ideal world, we'd implement all theme related changes in 1.9.0 to prevent breaking the theme system multiple times across separate releases.

## Editor change to TinyMCE

MyBB 1.8 currently uses the [SCEditor WYSIWYG text editor](https://www.sceditor.com) for writing posts and other content. However, there have been many issues reported since the initial 1.8 release about problems with this editor choice. One of the problems we've heard most often is related to the performance on mobile devices. As the major standout feature of MyBB 1.9 is better mobile compatibility by way of a new responsive theme, it makes sense to evaluate alternative text editors to replace SCEditor.

After evaluating a number of different options, we've decided to adopt [TinyMCE](https://www.tinymce.com) as our text editor going forwards. TinyMCE is a common tool used by many other projects such as EverNote, WordPress, ZenDesk and more. It also has a large range of features and plugins to provide support for functionality such as tables. During our testing, it performed well on a range of different mobile devices.

Work hasn't started yet on this integration, though we're not expecting it to be an overly difficult task to change the existing [`codebuttons` template](https://github.com/mybb/mybb/blob/develop/1.9/inc/views/base/misc/codebuttons.twig) to integrate the new editor.

## Other changes/features

*TODO: other issues with the 1.9.0 milestone - some may be moved to 1.10 based upon review*